
The region clustering GUI
=========================

how to compile/run
------------------

The GUI for region clustering is written in QT using the PyQT4 bindings. Most of the Graphical elements are generated by the code in the gui_main.py file, but some of them (the window and layout) was created using the QT designer. The output of this designer is a .ui file which has to be translated to python code. The translated code is not provided in the repository to avoid accidential compilation of an outdated gui. But PyQT4 has to be installed anyways and translation to python code is as simple as running (in the region_gui subfolder):

    pyuic4 layout.ui > layout.py

After this step the region_gui can be used.


usage of the GUI
----------------

Run the GUI by typing the following on your commandline (when located in the region_gui folder)

    python gui_main [/path/to/regions.json]

The part in brackets is optional. If you don't provide a path to a regions.json (the file your classification results will be saved in) a dialog will open and ask you for a regions.json. If the file given via commandline parameter does not exist, it will be created. If you want to select the file via the dialog, it has to be a valid json dictionary. Therefore create a textfile containing only two curly braces in the location you want and select this file via the dialog. You can also do this on the commandline with the following command:

    echo '{}' > regions.json

The Next step is to click the *Select Data Folder* button to set the location of your data. The data you need for the GUI are the output of your matrix factorization method as created by `runDros.py`.

You can now label the clusters of your data by clicking on the plots of your spatial bases. The results are written to the specified regions.json file.

